the trouble with not having a goal is
that you can spend your life running up
and down the field and never score and
that's where people lose years of their
life there's so much busyness and
running up and down the field there's so
much sense of action and accomplishment
that they realize that there's no
objective because they don't know what
they're reaching for they don't know
what their goal is and is deadly simple
as that sounds
step number one have a goal make it
specific make sure you know the rules of
the game you're playing make sure you
know what a win looks like in fact that
may be the most important question that
you could ask yourself the most pointed
thing that you could determine in your
life is to know what does it look like
to win once you know what it looks like
to win then you can work backwards then
you can figure out what you need to do
to score then you can figure out the
skills that you're going to need in
order to get great in order to go out
and dominate in order to be better than
anyone that has ever come before you but
to do that you've got to know what your
goal is and once you have that as Dale
Carnegie said if you want to conquer
fear don't sit home and think about it
go out and get busy so now you have your
goal now you're telling people what
you're gonna do now you're telling
yourself who you're gonna become you're
building something up inside of you but
are you actually taking the action are
you actually getting out and doing
something about it
and it is terrifying to me how people
can pacify themselves with a sense of
accomplishment simply by having a goal
simply by telling people that they're
gonna do something simply by fantasizing
about what they're going to accomplish
and let me tell you right now the thing
that separates the people whose dream
from the people who execute is a
willingness to act and at the end of the
day nothing is gonna stop you not fear
not inability not inadequacy the only
thing that will stop you is failing to
start failing to start is your mortal
enemy you've got to find a way to get
yourself going you've got a
the way to take that desire that
interest in you and turn it into a
raging inferno something that's going to
get you moving and going ahead that will
trample everything in its path once
you're able to do that nothing and I
mean nothing will be able to stop
as John Henrik Clark said powerful
people cannot afford to educate the
people that they oppress because once
you were truly educated you will not ask
for power you will take it I have the
chills right now and I want everyone
listening to this to really think about
that power is not given it is assumed if
you want something in your life you've
got to become capable of taking it and
that's the whole point behind getting
educated don't think about education is
flipping through a bunch of books
getting educated is about gaining
knowledge knowledge that has utility
knowledge that can be put to use in
service of something but you've got to
know what that in service of is what are
you trying to do why are you trying to
educate yourself and are you waiting are
you asking politely if you can be
educated or are you grabbing the things
that you need in order to learn and
insisting of your self insisting of your
self that you gained that knowledge that
you begin to empower yourself that you
build yourself into someone who cannot
be conquered and as Walt Whitman said I
live to be the ruler of life not a slave
to meet life as a powerful Conqueror and
nothing exterior to me will ever take
command at you now if you're gonna live
by those words you are going to have to
empower yourself you are going to have
to become capable of something tomorrow
that you are not capable of today and
the only way to do that is to educate
yourself but don't get trapped in other
people's definition of education
education is not sitting blindly in the
classroom education is not simply
working your way through Wikipedia
education is about understanding what
you're trying to accomplish and getting
the knowledge that you need in order to
bend reality to your will and this is
the thing that drives me crazy about how
people approach education at the
the day knowledge skills they are
designed to have real-world impact they
are designed to give you the ability to
do something that influences this world
they are designed to make you capable of
something that you weren't capable of
before when it is blind learning when
you think it's to impress your parents
or to get an a on the test or to make
your manager at work happy you have
already lost the point of knowledge is
to make sure that you can close your
eyes and envision a world open your eyes
and then make that world come true the
point of knowledge is to control your
own life
never forget that as vaclav havel said
work for something because it is good
not just because it stands a chance to
succeed this is something that I think a
lot of people misunderstand they think
that the goal of their life is to
identify something that'll work to
identify something that has the odds
stacked in its favour rather than to
think about what matters what's
important because if something is
important if it speaks to you if it's
going to give resonance to your life
then it's worth doing even if it's
something that is almost guaranteed to
fail when something matters enough
regardless of the odds it's worth
engaging with because even in the
pursuit you can find meaning and as
humans one of the things that we hunger
for most is purpose and meaning but you
can't have that purpose and meaning
without the thing that you're pursuing
be something that you believe to be
worthwhile so don't worry about whether
or not it succeeds ask only about
whether or not it's going to light you
on fire asked only if in those dark
moments that it will give you that sense
of mattering to this world that
even in the failure do you learn
something about yourself do you see the
truth that you matter and that even as a
single person even as one individual you
can echo through this world but that
will never happen by pursuing something
small that will never happen by pursuing
something simply because it can win it
will only happen by pursuing something
that matters and in that if you pursue
something that matters and you're able
to get to the point where you can see it
across the finish line or at least
advance it and make it a step closer to
becoming real in that we realize how
societies really are transformed in that
in trying the big the impossible
dreaming that thing that nobody else is
even willing to talk about in dreaming
that it is the crazy ones who are able
to change the world because the crazy
ones allowed themselves to believe they
allowed themselves to believe that
against all the odds a world that does
not yet exist could actually exist and
as ruff Marcin said welcomed those big
stinky complicated problems in them are
your most powerful opportunities and
that's it the big problems the ones that
matter the things that will give you
purpose and meaning in your life they're
going to be hard but if you can look at
the hard things and show up and push
every day and keep striving and when you
fall down pick yourself back up and
focus only on one thing not whether or
not you're going to win but whether or
not
that you played if you do that every
sacrifice in your life will be worth it
and if not nothing you gain will have
mattered as Frederick Nietzsche said
many are stubborn and pursued the path
they have chosen few in pursuit of the
goal and that's one of the things that
really trips people up at the end of the
day a path is an option it's one of the
ways forward but it's the thing that
you're doing right now today so people
get really focused on that they make
their happiness built around that they
think about that as the thing but as the
old saying goes don't confuse the finger
with the moon that it's pointing at
that's where you've got to be really
careful at the end of the day the goal
is the thing that you're trying to
achieve the goal is what you're trying
to get the path is irrelevant the path
is really your best guess it's the thing
you think is going to work but if you
become my optically focused on that if
you think that the path really is the
end thing if you think the finger
actually is the moon then you miss the
objective to which you're fighting for
then you're not gonna have the energy to
keep pushing when things get really hard
because you're going to have mistaken
the way of getting there with the
destination itself and I think that
people a lot of times throw hate on
having a destination on building towards
some big goal of having some grand thing
that they're chasing but as Einstein
said if you want to live a happy life
tie it to a goal not to people not to
things and the reason that he's
people and things they change you've got
no control over them at the end of the
day the only thing that you really
control is yourself at the end of the
day the only thing that you can hope for
is to be going after something that has
a meaning something that has purpose
something that really gives you a reason
for being that directs your actions that
becomes the filter by which you judge
everything that really becomes the
center the gravitational center of your
own universe but it's the goal
so what is it that you really want you
have to identify that to me everything
in life everything in life starts with
the goal and then work your way
backwards don't allow yourself to get
caught up in other people and putting
their happiness and somebody else in
finding purpose in something else and
trying to obtain the things I would be
something that we're trying
of course have it be something that
you're trying to home
once you're on the path to becoming then
you can find real
[Music]
you've got two choices in life choice
one you can become somebody else choice
- you can become yourself now I really
wish that there was only one choice but
in truth there's not and most people
choose to try to become someone else
because it's a road map its points in
the direction you see someone you
respond to something you admire them you
want to be like them and in that process
you've made your decision in that
process you've decided to become
somebody else you have mistaken the
finger for the moon instead you need to
understand that being inspired by
somebody does not mean to become that
person to become that which inspires you
it is to understand fundamentally what
is it about that thing that excites you
what is it what is its essence and when
you can find its essence then you can
find out how it would apply to you
becoming you and as Zen she says
flower does not think about competing
with the flower next to it it just
blooms and that's really your job is to
see the outside world to see the flower
next to you to understand the amazing
things that are happening all around you
all of the incredible people and the
essence of what they have and what it is
that they've done to bring inside
yourself and find out what does that
look like when it's me not what do I
look like when I'm
them and once you understand the
difference between that then you can
really begin to be something unique you
can become that thing that you were
meant to be that thing that makes you
feel alive and whole and that's it
that's the secret you're just trying to
be something not that's just inspiring
to other people I think you actually
want to wake up every day and be and
that's the [__] thing about it so
escaping you whatever you become a lie
the truth somebody else yourself
whatever it is there's been every day of
your life there and as Albert Einstein
said everybody's a genius but if you
judge a fish by its ability to climb a
tree it will live it's whole life
believing that it's stupid and that's
what confuses people people believe that
they're done because they're not finding
their path they're not defining things
based on what excites them and what they
want to live with every day they're just
looking to what the outside world says
is good and I think it's incredible that
there are other people doing things that
are so extraordinary that we aspire to
be like that but you have to understand
the difference between being like
someone and trying to actually
need them so if what inspires you is
that somebody works hard work hard if
what inspires you is that somebody gets
up every time they fail to get up every
time you fail if what you like is that
they're themselves with all their weird
eccentricities and quirks then be true
to your eccentricities and quirks but
don't try to embody their eccentricities
and quirks that's the surest way to
become the fish that thinks it's stupid
because it's being judged by trying to
climb a tree
so if Scott Belsky said when 99% of the
people doubt your idea
you're either gravely wrong or about to
make history and that's the terrifying
part you're not gonna know you're not
gonna know the difference but if you're
chasing somebody else's path if your
whole game is emulation if your whole
game is to mimic that which inspires you
you will never find the thing that's
real about you and look I don't know
about you but I can be wrong I can be
gravely wrong I can have people think me
an idiot and try something and fail as
long as it was true to me because then
the lesson that I'm gonna learn is going
to apply it's gonna take me an ever step
closer to actually being the person that
I want to become that I want to live
with every day
even if I don't understand who I want to
be so look inward identify your path
identify what excites you and go after
it as if your life depends on it because
in truth it does
all right listen and listen well because
no truer words are ever gonna be [__]
spoken you can do anything you want
without limitation whatever it is that
you decide you want to make come true in
your life you can do that it is gonna
take an inhuman amount of work you're
gonna have to be prepared to break
yourself in half you're going to have to
learn more than anyone has ever learned
you can have to push yourself harder
than anyone has ever asked you to push
yourself before you're gonna go way
beyond your breaking point you're gonna
run until you vomit you're gonna study
until you fall asleep you're going to
push and push and push and then you're
going to push some [__] more and when
you hit the limit you're gonna push
again beyond that you're gonna force
yourself into an adaptation response and
why because it's Malcolm X said the
future belongs to those who prepare for
it today so if you don't put the work in
today if you don't do the unending
back-breaking work of developing
yourself into something greater the
world is gonna pass you by the people
that are going to own it are gonna be
the ones that did that work and the one
promise that I can make you right now is
that somebody somebody out there is out
working somebody right now is doing the
things that I'm saying somebody right
now is doing the work of failing and
getting up and getting better and
pushing themselves and triggering that
glorious adaptation response that makes
humans the apex predator someone right
now they're putting in that work
and if you don't the future is gonna
belong to them and as Martin Luther King
jr. said you can't fly than one if you
can't run then walk if you can't walk
then crawl but whatever you do you have
to keep moving forward it's not okay to
make excuses it's not gonna slow people
down it's not okay to ask the world to
stop so that you can step out front it's
not okay
to expect little of yourself and demand
great rewards the only thing that's okay
is to be in line with the way that the
world really works and if you want to be
great you've got to become capable of
greatness you've got to develop your
skill set you've got to take what you
have now and if that's crawling then
[__] crawl but you drag yourself ever
forward to a vision of yourself that is
so clear and so specific that nothing
could knock you off your path because
you my friend know
where you're going you're willing to pay
whatever price it takes to get there and
no matter what anybody says no matter
how many [__] hecklers come for you
no matter how many people try to throw
dirt on you try to stop you try to knock
you down no matter how many [__]
people come for you at night while you
sleep you yell rise and you will keep
pushing forward and you will get better
every day and no matter how many times
people chop it you knock you down knock
you off the pathways and get back on you
will crawl so you can walk you will walk
till you run and then you will run until
you fly and death my friends is the only
path forward so if you want a [__]
future that makes you happy
if you want a world that you're excited
about get your ass out there and earn it
you